Configure OpenVAS



Change timezone:

NOTE: Recommend setting the timezone as UTC, the report displays UTC time only no matter what timezone you set.

-- Top-Right corner > My Settings


Configuration for a new target:

Begin by navigating to Scans > Tasks and clicking on the purple magic wand icon to begin the basic configuration wizard. After successfully 
navigating to the wizard, you should see a pop-up window similar to the one shown above. You can set up the initial scan of the local host 
here to make sure everything is set up correctly.

Scanning may take a while. Please allow OpenVAS enough time to complete the scan. You will then see a new dashboard for monitoring and 
analyzing your completed and ongoing scans


Schedule the scanning process:

Now that we know everything is normal, we can take a closer look at OpenVAS and how it works. Expand the car to scan and> start the task of 
creating a scan task for the managed computer.

- Creating a Task-

To create a custom task, navigate to the star icon in the upper right corner of the taskbar and select New task.

After selecting ” New Task” from the drop-down menu, you will see a large pop-up window with many options. We will introduce each option part 
and its purpose.

For this task, we’ll be specializing only in the Name, Scan Targets, and Scanner Type, and Scan Config. In later tasks, we will be focusing on 
the opposite choices for additional advanced configuration and implementation/automation.

        Name: permits North American country to line the name the scan are going to be referred to as inside OpenVAS
        Scan Targets: The targets to scan, can embrace Hosts, Ports, and Credentials. to make a brand new target you may follow another pop-up, 
                      this can be lined later during this task.
        Scanner: The scanner to use by default will use the OpenVAS design but you’ll be able to set this to any scanner of your selecting within 
                      the settings menu.
        Scan Config: OpenVAS has seven totally different scan sorts you can choose from and can be used supported however you’re aggressive or what 
                      info you wish to gather from your scan.

- Scoping a New Target-

To scope a new target, navigate to the star icon next to Scan Targets.

The 2 main choices you may have to be compelled to assemble are the Name and therefore the Hosts. This procedure is fairly uncomplicated and 
different options will solely be employed in advanced vulnerability management solutions. These are going to be lined in later tasks.

Now that we’ve got our target scoped we are able to still produce our task and start the scan. When the task is created, you’ll come to the 
scanning management panel, wherever you’ll track and execute the task. To run the task, navigate to the run icon within the operation.



Assets:

It permits visualizing the vulnerability of the parts akin to hosts or in operation systems.

Additional features:

Allow adding common parameters to OpenVAS.

Administration:

As the name suggests, you can manage passwords, users, etc.














